DOCS: general overview of data tiers and roles (#63086)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/modules/node.asciidoc

<<data-node,Data node>>::

A node that has the `data` role (default). Data nodes hold data and perform data
related operations such as CRUD, search, and aggregations. The `data` role fulfils
the role of any of the more specialised data nodes `data_content`,`data_hot`,

> `data_warm` or `data_cold`. Nodes could be configured to fulfil one or multiple

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`data_warm` or `data_cold`. Nodes can be configured to fulfill one or multiple
```

`data_warm`, or `data_cold`. A node can belong to multiple tiers, but a node that has one of the specialised data roles cannot have the
generic `data` role.

[[data-content-node]]
==== [x-pack]#Content data node#

Content data nodes accommodate user-created content. They enable operations like CRUD,
search and aggregations.

To create a dedicated content node, set:
[source,yaml]
----
node.roles: [ data_content ]
----

[[data-hot-node]]
==== [x-pack]#Hot data node#

Hot data nodes store time series data as it enters {es}. The hot tier must be fast for
both reads and writes, and requires more hardware resources (such as SSD drives).

To create a dedicated hot node, set:
[source,yaml]
----
node.roles: [ data_hot ]
----

[[data-warm-node]]
==== [x-pack]#Warm data node#

Warm data nodes store indices that are no longer being regularly updated, but are still being
queried. Query volume is usually at a lower frequency than it was while the index was in the hot tier.
Less performant hardware can usually be used for nodes in this tier.

To create a dedicated warm node, set:
[source,yaml]
----
node.roles: [ data_warm ]
----

[[data-cold-node]]
==== [x-pack]#Cold data node#

> Cold data nodes store read-only indices that are accessed less frequently. This tier uses less performant hardware and leverages snapshot-backed indices to minimize the resources required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cold data nodes store read-only indices that are accessed less frequently. This tier uses less performant hardware and may leverage snapshot-backed indices to minimize the resources required.
```

node.roles: [ data ]
----

Data nodes can be more specialised in order to allow for tiered storage deployments.
A collection of data nodes with the same specialised role is called a
<<modules-tiers, data tier>>.

IMPORTANT: If a node has a `data tier` role, it cannot *also*
be a generic `data` node.

The available <<modules-tiers, data tier>> roles are the following:

[[data-content-node]]
==== [x-pack]#Content data node#

Content data nodes accommodate user-created content. They enable operations like CRUD,

> search and aggregations.

Author: I think introducing more abstract terms could potentially complicate things further here. I believe the product catalog would usually be manually introduced in the system (ie. user created) as opposed to being machine generated (like logs and metrics).

> search and aggregations.

Author: I wonder if it would be clearer if we talk about "content" by exemplifying it as opposed to using the content origin? 

eg. Content data nodes store the documents that back/support application, website, and enterprise search. The value of the data in a content node remains relatively constant, and the performance requirements aren't tied to the age of the data.

To create a dedicated content node, set:
[source,yaml]
----
node.roles: [ data_content ]
----

[[data-hot-node]]
==== [x-pack]#Hot data node#

> Hot data nodes accommodate time series data as it enters {es}. The hot tier must be fast for
> both reads and writes, and requires more hardware resources (such as SSD drives).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hot data nodes store time series data as it enters {es}. The hot tier must be fast for
both reads and writes, and requires more hardware resources (such as SSD drives).
```

To create a dedicated hot node, set:
[source,yaml]
----
node.roles: [ data_hot ]
----

[[data-warm-node]]
==== [x-pack]#Warm data node#

> Warm data nodes hold indices after they are no longer being written to, but still being
> queried, usually at a lower frequency than it was in the hot tier. Lower performant
> hardware can usually be used in this tier.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Warm data nodes store indices that are no longer being regularly updated, but are still being
queried. Query volume is usually at a lower than it was while the index was in the hot tier. Less performant
hardware can usually be used for nodes in this tier.
```

To create a dedicated warm node, set:
[source,yaml]
----
node.roles: [ data_warm ]
----

[[data-cold-node]]
==== [x-pack]#Cold data node#

> Cold data nodes hold indices after they are no longer updated in the warm tier. Lower
> performant hardware is used in this tier, along with optimizations related to
> disaster recovery and index replication that will ensure the resources needed to
> accommodate the indices are much lower than in the warm tier, at the expense of the indices
> being read only and backed by snapshots.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cold data nodes store read-only indices that are accessed less frequently. This tier uses less performant hardware and leverages snapshot-backed indices to minimize the resources required.
```
